<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE preface SYSTEM "common_entities.dtd">

<preface xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
  xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
  xml:id="foreword">
  
  <title>Foreword</title>

  <section>
    <title>Caveat</title>
    <para>
        This document is under development and the date to be finish is not expected.
        To write a documentation is a hard task and usually the code evolves quicker 
        than the documentation. We are doing a big effort to document all details of the
        software. While the project will mature, new chapters will be draft
        and old ones will be revised in order to stay as close as
        possible in sync with the actual realization. Please, keep tuned and check
        regularly the news in this document.
        Also, remember that the source code of the documentation is in same repository
        that GRASP software allowing everybody to contribute to this document. If you
        are interesting in contribute making corrections or adding new text we
        will be very glad of receive your suggestions. In that case, please, have a 
        look to the technical documentation to know how to contribute 
        (<link xl:href="http://www.grasp-open.com/tech-doc/">www.grasp-open.com/tech-doc</link>).
    </para>
  </section>
    
  <section>
    <title>What you will find in this document</title>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            A general vision of scientific algorithm
        </listitem> 
        <listitem>
            A general vision of software arquitecure
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            How to compile the code including description of prerequisites
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            How to run the code including a general vision about how it works
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            References to other documents, especially to the detailed
            documentation of the major components of the system when it is
            available or scientific papers.
        </listitem>    
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>What you won't find in this document</title>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
          A detailed description of the scientific algorithm, one
          refers to &DUBOVIK2011; for more information.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
          A detailed description of each module, routine or
          data structure being part of the production system. For developers,
          technical documentation is provided as another documentation. Please, 
          have a look to: <link xl:href="http://www.grasp-open.com/tech-doc/">www.grasp-open.com/tech-doc</link>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
          A documentation of all extensions of the software. Each extension
          has to have its own documentation. Here it is described only main
          GRASP package and only if an extension provide a very important feature
          which is widely used it can be described here exceptionally.
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Versioning</title>
    <para>
        GRASP software born many years ago. In 2013, the developement team started the tag releases
        with following format vXX.YY.ZZ where XX is the number of major version, YY is 
        the number of minor version and ZZ the revision. This nomenclature system is valid 
        from first stable version (v1.0.0) that at the moment of write this lines it does not
        exist yet. Beta versions (v0.YY.ZZ) will follow more flexible rules of naming and
        it each name will be decided by the developer team taking into account if a version
        introduce new important features, break the compatibility with previous versions, etc.
        For most curious people, first GRASP tag was v0.2.0 and it was not public yet. The
        code started to be publicly available from the version v0.7.0 and regularly, developer
        team releases the latest developments with really innovative features.
    </para>
  </section>
</preface>

 